---
dtend: 2018-04-04 20:00:00 -0400
dtstart: 2018-04-04 18:00:00 -0400
location: 300 Rockefeller Hall
meetup_id: '245924220'
title: "FreeIPA: Technology and Real World Uses"
type: meeting
redirect_from:
    - /meetings/2018/technology-and-real-world-uses-of-freeipa-with-red-hat
---

Do you need to manage users and access for thousands of Linux servers?
Or maybe just for a few Linux desktops and your NAS at home? Are you
using Ansible, but haven't yet figured out how to manage SSH keys or
access into your hosts? Matt Smith, Red Hat's Chief Architect for the
Northeast US, will dive deep into FreeIPA - an open source project to
deliver users, groups, and security policy management for Linux
servers. Along the way, Matt will:

* demystify Kerberos and LDAP, and explain why they are a critical part of most large I.T. organizations
* describe how Red Hat Identity Management (Red Hat's productization
  of FreeIPA) is being used by I.T. organizations to secure large
  Linux environments
* explain how FreeIPA can be used to improve the security of your Ansible operation
* talk about his personal usage of FreeIPA for his family's desktops
  and home network.

### Speaker ###

Matt Smith: Chief Architect, Red Hat, Inc.
@rhmjs | https://mjs.fyi

As Chief Architect, Matt is responsible for helping Red Hat customers
achieve their key business transformation initiatives through open
source architectures and technologies. He regularly advises Fortune
100 enterprises across a wide range of industries, on topics such as
Digital Transformation, IT Modernization, and the changing landscape
of Security and Risk in Technology.

Matt has strong opinions on VIM being the only editor one could
possibly need, tabs being the only correct way to indent, Python being
the one true systems language, LDAP being the best NoSQL
implementation ever, Kerberos being the only right way to secure
authentication, and porters and stouts being the only "real" beers -
and also enjoys engaging a good debate.

Matt joined Red Hat in 2013, bringing two decades of IT experience
ranging from development and system administration to management,
strategy, and architecture.  Matt has knowledge in many areas of
technology, with a particular interest in identity & access management
and managing the risk of change, and greatly enjoys bringing Open
Source solutions to the enterprise.
