---
dtend: 2019-03-06 20:00:00 -0500
dtstart: 2019-03-06 18:00:00 -0500
location: 300 Rockefeller Hall
meetup_id: '255997754'
title: Quantum Computing
type: meeting
---

Quantum computers are not just science fiction anymore, with many
companies building increasingly more powerful quantum
computers. While, concepts in quantum computing have been around for
over 30 years, it hasn't been generally accessible until
recently. Despite this quantum computing is still very much in its
infancy and there are physical limitations preventing them from being
generally usable. But the machines that are available today are useful
for experimentation and showcasing certain applications where they
will be useful in the future.

Open source software for quantum computing has started being developed
as these new machines are being built. Learning the lessons from the
history of developing classical computers, there are already several
open source SDKs, languages, and libraries being developed for quantum
computers despite the current limitations of quantum computers. This
means as the technology matures and becomes more practical there will
already be an open source ecosystem for using quantum computing.

This talk will provide an introduction to the basics of quantum
information theory, look at some of the quantum computers out there,
explore the open source tooling available for quantum computing, and
show how you can use that to write your own quantum programs and run
them on simulators and actual quantum computers.

### Speaker ###

Matthew Treinish has been working on and contributing to Open Source
software for most of his career. Matthew currently works for IBM
Research developing open source software for quantum computing. He is
also a long time OpenStack contributor and a former member of the
OpenStack TC (Technical Committee) and was previously the PTL
(project technical lead) of the OpenStack community's QA program. He
has previously been a speaker at linux.conf.au, OpenStack summits,
LinuxCons Japan, China, and North America, Open Source Summit Europe,
SeaGL, OpenWest, and FOSSASIA.

### 16th Anniversary ###

This will also be the 16th Anniversay meeting, as such, there will be cake.

### Lightning Talks ###

We'll also be doing the
following [lightning talks](/lightning-talks.html) before the meeting:

* None yet, please propose below!


<a class="btn btn-default btn-hvopen"
  href="mailto:sean@dague.net?cc=matthias.a.johnson@gmail.com&subject=HV%20Open%20Lightning%20Talk%20Submission"
  role="button">Propose
  a Lightning Talk</a>
