---
layout: post
title: "Mad Science Fair's 8th year promises Robotic Fun"
date: 2018-07-02 8:00:00 -0400
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<!-- For Immediate Release

Mad Science Fair's 8th year promises Robotic Fun

**July 2, 2018**  - -->

Makers of all sorts will be showing off their projects
in this year's Mad Science Fair coming up on Wednesday July 11th -
6pm at Lourdes High School.

The Mad Science Fair was thought up almost 10 years ago at the Palace
Diner in Poughkeepsie by Joe Apuzzo, long time member of the HV Open
Technology Meetup. Members of HV Open were discussing all kinds of
projects they were working on over dinner. These ranged from simple
blinking of LED lights, building radio equipment, to custom designing
and manufacturing circuit boards overseas. "You know what would be
great, if we had an old time Science Fair, but showing off all these
projects to each other," said Joe Apuzzo. "It would be like the Mad
Science version of a Science Fair, a Mad Science Fair."

And ever since then HV Open has dedicated it's July meetup to the Mad
Science Fair. Sophi Kravitz, notable local maker who works for
Hack-a-day, once brought an interactive art project that pulsed light
and sound based on your heartbeat. By using a pulse ox sensor, those
typically used during a doctor visit, the art reacted to your own
body, and made for a different experience every time a different
wearer put it on.

Among the many projects this year will include robots, green screens,
a learn to solder station, geothermal heating, and much more. Matthias
Johnson, IT Director for Lourdes High School, is also the mentor for
the Lourdes robotics team. Every year they compete in a statewide
challenge to build and program robots to navigate a complex obstacle
course. He'll have some of the robots and parts of the course on
display.

"It's always a wonderful night. You find yourself learning so much,
and talking with folks about incredible projects they've made." said
Sean Dague, founder of HV Open. "I always walk away inspired to create
something new."

The Mad Science Fair runs from 6 - 8pm on Wednesday July 11th in the
Cafeteria at Our Lady of Lourdes High School in Poughkeepsie NY. For
more information check out the HV Open website - http://hvopen.org.

## Contacts: ##

HV Open:

* Sean Dague, sean@dague.net
* Matthias Johnson, matthias.a.johnson@gmail.com
