---
layout: default-narrow
---

# Meeting Notes for April 2018 #

## Intro ##

I'd like to welcome you all to the April HV Open meeting. I'm Sean
Dague, president and founder of the group. We've also got a few other
folks from the leadership team here, Matt Johnson who is the program
director, and Jack Chastain the Historian. Jack will be taking
pictures of the event to help give folks a sense of the evening. If
you have a concern about your photo being posted online, please chat
with him after and we'll make sure they aren't.

### House keeping business ###

If you need the rest rooms, they can be found on the 1st and 4th
floors of this building.

### Code of Conduct ###

HV Open meetings are covered by a code of conduct. If you have a
concern on a possible code of conduct violation, please just send an
email to safe@hvopen.org and the leadership team will address it in a
timely manner.

### Evening flow ###

For new faces in the room, and folks that haven't been around in a
while, the way our meeting works is as follows.

* We start the evening with 1 - 3 lightning talks. These are 5 - 10
  minute quick talks about some kind of open technology or project or
  thing you did that excites you.
* We then move on to our main talk
* After that we do announcements, including getting a count for dinner
* And we head off to the Palace diner for dinner and further talk on
  technology, pop culture, and whatever else is on people's
  minds. It's a fun part of the evening and everyone is welcome.

## Lightning Talk - New Website ##

For my lightning talk tonight I'm going to talk about the new HV Open
website. A new brand needed a new website. Over the years we've had a
number of different websites. The 1st one was server side include html
managed in CVS, the 2nd one was a moin moin wiki, the 3rd one was
based on Drupal 6 (then migrated to 7), and the latest one based on
Jekyll which is a static site generator written in ruby.

Static site generators have become all the rage of late, as you can
write content in something simple like markdown, it compiles it to
html through a template. This is all in a git repository in the hvopen
group on github. The hosting for the website is done on a service
called Netlify, which is optimized for this, and means we push out to
a CDN. The net effect is speed. Pages consistently have load times at
less than 700ms, which means loading on 3G is even half way
reasonable.

In order to build the website I needed to extend Jekyll with a number
of custom plugins. I won't go into the details tonight, as Jekyll
itself could make a substantial talk on it's own, but I wrote up an
overview with links here....

First, what's coming with us, and what's staying behind. All the
meeting descriptions have come over. That goes back to the origin of
the group. A number of the year one and year two ones were
reconstructed from memory, but everything after that is what was
written down at the time.

We will probably not back populate all the non meeting events. The
fact that we had lunch or a leadership meeting is less interesting in
hindsight.

We've got about 1.2 Gigs of digital assets, photos, presentations,
supporting material. Pushing those all into git is not really the
right way to manage those. We're still figuring out our photo
management solution going forward, but for the presentations my intent
is to push them all up to the Internet Archive tagged with mhvlug and
hvopen, and link to them. That's a manual process and could use
volunteers, so if anyone is interesting, please come and talk to me
after the meeting. We might try to organize a sprint or some other fun
thing to get all this fixed up.

For all the content that we migrated over, the old urls will still
work. We've got a rather extensive redirect system in place. I'm in
the camp that URLs are sacred.

One last thing, which is an important one. HV Open is now governed by
a formal code of conduct. Here it is. One of the things that I feel is
very important about the organization is that we are a model of a
respectful and inclusive community, and being clear what will not be
tolerated is an important part of that. If anyone has questions or
comments on that, please feel free to chat with me after the meeting.

So, I hope you like the new site, and I also hope that you come and
contribute to it.

## Speaker Introduction ##

As a reminder, we're really fortunate to get some great speakers up on
stage. I know folks often have questions, so if you have clarifying
questions, you are welcome to ask them. As a reminder, a question is a
sentence of made up of 20 - 30 words that ends in a question
mark. There will be time for more in depth chat about the topic after
the lecture, and at dinner for any that wish to join us.

I'd like to welcome Matt Johnson tonight. Matt got involved in HV Open
for nearly a decade, and quickly stepped up to help with organizing
activities. He's been the program director for HV Open for the last
many years, and you can thank him for our really high quality lecture
series. Over the past few years he's been getting more involved with
teaching students software development and engineering, which has
included teaching game development class at Lourdes, and leading their
robotics team. He also moonlights as a DJ.

# Post Meeting Announcements #

Ok, we've got a number of these, so lets get rolling. All these slides
are also live at live.hvopen.org so you can find the links later.

First, lets get a headcount for dinner.

We touched on the Code of Conduct at the beginning of the
meeting, but I wanted to bring it up again. Please keep this space an
inclusive and respectful one.

Next, lets talk about events. Next month, Dan Stone, Senior Creative
Director at Moonfarmer up in Kingston is going to give the talk on
Kubernetes. If you saw Mike's talk on Docker and Containers a couple
of years ago, and thought to yourself, "but if I put everything in
it's own container, doesn't it become kind of a crazy mess?". The
answer is yes, yes it does. And that's why you need an container
orchestration system, like Kubernetes. He's going to give an overview,
and show how it's become their standard deployment platform for
clients.

We're still nailing down June as we had to do some rescheduling to
handle speaker conflicts. But we'll get that out soon.

July 11th will be our Mad Science Fair, at Lourdes High School. Last
year we had 9 exhibitors, I'd love to get us past a dozen this
year. The registration form is up and live so you can tell us what
you'll doing, and what kinds of equipment you need. Please register as
soon as you can so that we can make sure we're doing the space
planning and layout correctly. This is also a promiss that we might
have Matt's robot league setup and running during the event, which
would be awesome.

Between events we do an HV Open Lunch at Mole Mole, that will be in 2
weeks. Check meetup or our website if you are interested.

Squidwrench, if you like hacking on hardware as well as software, this
is a great group to check out. Sean Swelha is the founder of that
effort. They meet every Tuesday in Highland for an open hack
night. They will also be going a special Electronics Workshop starting
on April 21st. If you are interested in that please see their link
here for more info.

Slack! We're on Slack now. This is mostly an experiment to see if it
will help communicate on organizing the group. Slack is kind of web
based IRC with good mobile support. If you are interested in joining
just go to hvopen.org/slack and sign up there for an invite.

And lastly I'd like to thank Vassar College for their support. They've
been hosting us for the last 8 years, and having that kind of steady
support has been incredibly important for the group growing and
evolving.

So, we'll hang out until about 8, feel free to chat and mingle and
then we'll be off to the Palace diner. Thanks again for coming, and
we'll see you next month.
